Chapter 5.5-> and Chapter 6

# (5) Polymorphism

## Eager and Lazy evaluation

Eager evaluation is when a functions arguments are evaluated upon the function call, whereas lazy evaluation does not evaluate arguments until they are used. In other words, if an argument is not used, then it is not evaluated.

This is very clear in if-then-else statements:
```fs
let fac n =
    if n == 1
    then 1
    else fac (n-1)
```

If we have lazy evaluation, we would determine the result of `else` even if we never need it and thus create an infinite loop. Thus if-then-else statements should always be lazy evaluated.

## Polymorphic types

We want to be able to have functions such as `('b -> 'b) -> ('b -> 'b)`, meaning a function that has another function as parameter and returns a third function. The function parameter must have the same return type as parameter type, and the resulting function are also constrained to this. In general terms, we want to be able to define functions with as general types as possible.

Where a function `f x = 2 * x` must be `int -> int`, as we are performing arithmetics on `x`, a function such as `f p xs = List.filter p xs` would have type `('a -> bool) -> 'a list -> 'a list`. In other words: A function that can evaluate each element to a boolean, and then a list of the same elements producing a list of the elements.

Implementing type inference follows a set of rules and described in chapters 6.3 and 6.4.

### Restrictions

First two restrictions on type-inference on polymorphic types are necessary to implement type inference. 

Type variables in the type of a function parameter `g` will not be generalized. I.e. the following is ill-typed:
`let f g = g 7 + g false` (g is a function but cannot be further generalized)

Type variables in the type of a recursive function `h` are not generalized in the body of the function itself. I.e. the following is ill-typed: `let rec h x = if true then 22 else h 7 + h false` (despite `h` always resolving to an integer, we cannot apply both bools and integers to the function in the body)

The third restriction is necessary for type inference to be sound, such that programs do not crash due to ill typing.

Type variables, that has been equated in a larger scope with an unresolved type cannot be generalized. See for instance the following example:

```fs
let g y = 
    let f x = (x=y)
    in f 1 && f false
in g 2
```

Both `1` and `false` must be comparable with `y` so we do not cause a crash when attempting to equate one type with another.

